title: Container environment variables
description: Use environment variables in containers

[code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/environment-variables "Environment variables")

# Environment variables

You can set environment variables in your container without altering the container image by using one of the options below.

> You should verify **Terminal \> Integrated: Inherit Env** is checked in settings or the variables you set may not appear in the Integrated Terminal. This setting is checked by default.

Depending on what you reference in `devcontainer.json`:

* **Dockerfile or image**: Add the `containerEnv` property to `devcontainer.json` to set variables that should apply to the entire container or `remoteEnv` to set variables for VS Code and related sub-processes (terminals, tasks, debugging, etc.):
   
        "containerEnv": {
        "MY_CONTAINER_VAR": "some-value-here",
        "MY_CONTAINER_VAR2": "${localEnv:SOME_LOCAL_VAR}"
    },
    "remoteEnv": {
        "PATH": "${containerEnv:PATH}:/some/other/path",
        "MY_REMOTE_VARIABLE": "some-other-value-here",
        "MY_REMOTE_VARIABLE2": "${localEnv:SOME_LOCAL_VAR}"
    }
   

As this example illustrates, `containerEnv` can reference local variables and `remoteEnv` can reference both local and existing container variables.

### [Video: Modify PATH in a dev container][1]

# An error occurred.

[Try watching this video on www.youtube.com][2], or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser.

* **Docker Compose**: Since Docker Compose has built-in support for updating container-wide variables, only `remoteEnv` is supported in `devcontainer.json`:
   
        "remoteEnv": {
        "PATH": "${containerEnv:PATH}:/some/other/path",
        "MY_REMOTE_VARIABLE": "some-other-value-here",
        "MY_REMOTE_VARIABLE2": "${localEnv:SOME_LOCAL_VAR}"
    }
   

As this example illustrates, `remoteEnv` can reference both local and existing container variables.

To update variables that apply to the entire container, update (or [extend][3]) your `docker-compose.yml` with the following for the appropriate service:
   
        version: '3'
    services:
      your-service-name-here:
        environment:
          - YOUR_ENV_VAR_NAME=your-value-goes-here
          - ANOTHER_VAR=another-value
         # ...
   

If you've already built the container and connected to it, run **Dev Containers: Rebuild Container** from the Command Palette (F1) to pick up the change. Otherwise run **Dev Containers: Open Folder in Container...** to connect to the container.

If you have a large number of environment variables that you need to set, you can use a `.env` file instead.

First, create an environment file somewhere in your source tree. Consider this `.devcontainer/devcontainer.env` file:
   
   
    YOUR_ENV_VAR_NAME=your-value-goes-here
    ANOTHER_ENV_VAR_NAME=your-value-goes-here
   

Next, depending on what you reference in `devcontainer.json`:

* **Dockerfile or image**: Edit `devcontainer.json` and add a path to the `devcontainer.env` :
   
        "runArgs": ["--env-file",".devcontainer/devcontainer.env"]
   

* **Docker Compose:** Edit `docker-compose.yml` and add a path to the `devcontainer.env` file relative to the Docker Compose file:
   
        version: '3'
    services:
      your-service-name-here:
        env_file: devcontainer.env
        # ...
   

`docker compose` will automatically pick up a file called `.env` in the folder containing the `docker-compose.yml`, but you can also create one in another location.

If you've already built the container and connected to it, run **Dev Containers: Rebuild Container** from the Command Palette (F1) to pick up the change. Otherwise run **Dev Containers: Open Folder in Container...** to connect to the container.

### [Video: Load variables from an .env file][4]

# An error occurred.

[Try watching this video on www.youtube.com][5], or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser.

9/7/2023

[1]: https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/#_video-modify-path-in-a-dev-container
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEb7hKlagAU
[3]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/create-dev-container#_extend-your-docker-compose-file-for-development
[4]: https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/#_video-load-variables-from-an-env-file
[5]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qTU7w3bWrOk

